---
layout: project 
root: "./.." 
category:  project 
type: urban game
img: cityfireflies
title: City Fireflies 
technologies: [Openframeworks, Media Facade] 
when: 28/01/2011 - 30/01/2011
collaborators: [<a href="http://sergio.eclectico.net">Sergio Galan Nieto</a>] 
task: Game design, Programming 
desc: Media Lab Prado Media Facade Game that uses light sources as a controller 
videos:  
sourcecode: 
context: Global Gamejam 2011, Medialab Prado. Madrid. 
---


CityFireflies started as a project during the 48 hours game-coding event, Global Gamejam 2011 in Madrid. 

The game was made in such a way that it takes almost no time to start playing since the only instruction given is to turn on the phone screen. Rapidly the player can enjoy the game in a 15x10 meters Media Facade located in the Media Lab Prado, Madrid. 

Details later, here a video of how the game looks like :) 


{% if site.videos == true %} 
<div class="videoWrapper">   
<iframe class="project_full_video" src="http://player.vimeo.com/video/25071870"  frameborder="0"></iframe><p><a href="http://www.vimeo.com/25071870" class="project_full_caption"> City Fireflies v0.2 Vimeo Link</a> 
</div>
{% else %} 
<video  width="100%" height="360"  src="../videosparaweb/city_fireflies_v0.2_640x360.MP4" poster="../videosparaweb/city_fireflies_v0.2_640x360.jpg" controls="controls" preload="none">
        It seems that your browser doesn't support html5 videos!! 
</video> 
{% endif %} 

Before staring to create the game, we had something very clear in mind, we wanted to focus in the user experience for digital urban games. We discarded using active devices that sends information to the screen since is overcomplicated to set it up in urban context and internet on mobile phones, although is here, not everybody has it, and we wanted EVERYBODY to be able to play this game, kids, youngsters and granpas :) 

The other solution we thought about was tracking the user with cameras but most of the times the result is not good enough, specially when lots of users are playing in a reduced space and light condition varies. For these reasons we came out with the idea of using light sources as a controller, so turning on the phone screen works perfectly even with a huge number of players!

The game was showed in the Piksel Festival 2011 in Bergen, Norway. One day indoor due to the rain, one day outdoor. 

If you are curious to see how it looked like in only 24 hours of development, check it here :) 
	
{% if site.videos == true %} 
	
<div class="videoWrapper">   
<iframe class="project_full_video" src="http://player.vimeo.com/video/19356892" width="100%" height="450px"  frameborder="0"></iframe><p><a href="http://www.vimeo.com/19356892" class="project_full_caption"> City Fireflies v0.1 Vimeo Link</a> 
</div>
	
{% else %} 
<video width="100%" height="360"  src="../videosparaweb/city_fireflies_v0.1_640x360.MP4" poster="../videosparaweb/city_fireflies_v0.1_640x360.jpg" controls="controls" preload="none">
        It seems that your browser doesn't support html5 videos!! 
</video>
{% endif %} 

