---
layout: project 
root: "./.."
category: project 
type: tool  
img: oscdroid
title: OSCdroid  
technologies: [Android SDK, HTML5, Javascript] 
when: 11/2010 - Still working on it!
collaborators: 
task:  
desc: A nifty tool for prototyping and control interactive creations 
images: [oscdroid1.png, oscdroid2.png, oscdroid3.png, oscdroid4.png, oscdroid5.png, oscdroid6.png] 
sourcecode: 
context: 
---

OSCdroid is a nifty tool, meant for prototyping, manipulate values of your interactive application and control music applications such as Pure Data, MAX/MSP, etc using the OSC protocol.  

You can start playing with it since the first moment. Just download the Processing examples from this URL: goo.gl/nqRDo and have fun! 

<div class="infonote">Note: The version in the market is pretty outdated. I still work on it for my experimentations. Sadly I have to say that I do not find the time to polish it and upload it to the market. If you want the the latest version, write me and kindly I will send to you :)</div>  

The application comes with some standard native interfaces but it also provides the option of creating as many custom interfaces as you want using html5 and Javascript.

Currently has the following features:

- Custom interface using html5 and Javascript
- Multitouch points
- Trackball
- Accelerometer
- Orientation Sensor
- GPS
- Sound volume
- Light sensor
- Incoming SMS to the computer
- Send SMS using the phone as gateway
- Make the phone vibrate
- Send key events to the computer 
- NFC 
- and many more!