---
layout: post 
category: bio
title: about me 
cv: <a href="/docs/victor_diaz_english.pdf"> GRAB IT HERE! </a> 
links: [ <a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/biquillo"> MY FLICKR GALLERY </a> ] 

desc: 
--- 

h1. {{ page.title }} 

Hello World! My name is Victor Diaz a Spaniard guy who was born in Granada, Spain and now is living in Barcelona. I studied Telecommunication Engineering and recently I finished an Interdisciplinary Master in Cognitive Systems and Interactive Media aka CSIM at the University Pompeu Fabra of Barcelona. 

I am really interested in human emotions, in how the brain works, in data visualizations, new ways of interfacing with computers, photography, experimental cinema, more humanized architecture and really concerned about new ways of education. And even better if everything is seasoned with open source and free culture :) Too many things isn't it? It could be but somehow all of them are interconnected :) 

Here you can find some of the projects I did. They are not too many and not something that can be called amazing but I enjoyed a lot doing them, specially when my friends got involved. 

My biggest passion is to travel, it always remind me that my culture is not the only one in the world and there are many ways of thinking and seeing about the same thing. This is the beauty of this world, an heritage we should keep, and yes I'm writing this in English and not in my native language, Spanish :) 

I love languages as well and although I do not speak any perfectly I try to do it in English, French, German and Japanese apart from my mother tongue, Spanish. 

<h2>Here some places where I have been (by visiting order)</h2> 

Spain, Portugal, Greece, France, England, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Switzerland, Germany, Czech Republic, The Netherlands, Belgium, Morocco, Hungary, Austria, Poland, Slovakia, Sweden. 

<h2>Places where I've lived </h2> 
Granada, Jaen, Madrid, Barcelona (Spain), Montpellier (France), Bern (Switzerland) and Tokyo (Japan) 

